.TH lxqt-session "1" "January 2025" "LXQt 2.1.0" "LXQt Session Module"
.SH NAME.
\fBlxqt-session\fR \- Session manager of \fBLXQt\fR: The Lightweight Qt Desktop
Environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lxqt-session
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This module handles starting applications under LXQt
.P
The \fBLXQt modules\fR are desktop-independent tools and operate as daemons
for the local user on desktop specific operations.
.P
\fBLXQt\fR is an advanced, easy-to-use, and fast desktop environment based on
the Qt framework. It has been tailored for users who value simplicity, speed,
and an intuitive interface, with minimal resource requirements. It comprises
several optional desktop components:
.P
 * Session module (\fIthis\fR, normally invoked by \fBstartlxqt\fR (X11)) or by the
compositor)
 * Wayland session
 * Configuration center
 * Application launcher
 * Desktop
 * Panel with optional plugins
 * Polkit authorization agent
 * SSH password access
 * Global shortcuts
 * Power management
 * Localization
 * User and system time administration
 * Sudo/su module (privilege elevation)
.P
These components perform similar actions to those available in other desktop
environments, and their name is self-descriptive.  They are usually launched
automatically, when choosing a \fBLXQt\fR session in the Display Manager, except
Global shortcuts which is not launched under Wayland.
.SH BEHAVIOR
This application manages the \fBLXQt\fR session desktop behavior, module
loading, and related startup programs prior loading the user workspace.
By default this module loads the panel, desktop, globalshortcut, runner, notifications,
policykit, and power management modules, thus it is important for a working \fBLXQt\fR
session.
.SH AUTOSTART
The modules are only shown by default in the \fBLXQt\fR desktop environment, but
an autostart action can be created for other desktop environments.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to https://github.com/lxqt/lxqt-session/issues
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\" any module must refer to the session application, for module overview and initiation
\fBstartlxqt(1)\fR  LXQt session initialization and launch script (e.g. in \fB.xinitrc\fR)
.P
\fBlxqt-config-session(1)\fR  LXQt default and autostart applications settings,
plus environment settings
.P
\fBlxqt-wayland-session(1)\fR  LXQt Wayland session
.P
\fBlxqt-config(1)\fR  LXQt Configuration Center
.P
\fBlxqt-leave(1)\fR  Session logout, reboot, shutdown, suspend, hibernate
and lock screen
.P
\fBlxqt-openssh-askpass(1)\fR  Password access over ssh cryptography toolkit
.P
\fBlxqt-panel(1)\fR  Desktop panel with optional plugins
.P
\fBlxqt-policykit-agent(1)\fR Polkit authorization agent
.P
\fBlxqt-globalshortcuts(1)\fR Global shortcuts // missing //
.P
\fBlxqt-runner(1)\fR  Application launcher
.P
\fBlxqt-sudo(1)\fR  sudo/su GUI
.P
